![](img/header.png) Basic statistics across platforms
================
Brendan Clarke
2022-10-12

# 

## Introduction

This training course is an introduction to statistics. It’s aimed at
users in health, social care, and housing.

It will cover a mixture of theory and practice. Currently available in
two variants:

- R
- Excel

It assumes a little bit of prior experience with both software
platforms.

## What this training will cover

### session 1: title

You can take any combination of the sessions in any order. Of necessity,
there is some overlap between sessions, but in general they are
independent and can be mixed-and-matched to suit your interest.

## Getting started

### How does it work?

The training is delivered as a series of live Teams session using
[Rstudio Cloud](https://rstudio.cloud/).

If you’ve never used Rstudio Cloud before, it’s a
[SaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_as_a_service) version of
Rstudio in the browser. Note that because it’s a web service, it
requires you to upload your data to their servers, which might makes it
unsuitable for production work in health and care owing to information
governance concerns. That said, it’s an excellent venue for training,
because it solves many of the difficulties regarding R versions,
permissions, etc that are a feature of using R on the desktop. It’s also
very easy to transfer projects from RStudio Cloud to an installed
version of R, so don’t worry that what you learn here will be tied to
the cloud forever.

### What you’ll need

As RStudio Cloud is a web service, you don’t need a particularly
up-to-date computer to completed this training. As long as you have a
reliable internet connection, and are capable of making a video call
with Microsoft Teams (for the face-to-face part of the training), then
you should be fine. The demonstration has been tested on Windows 10,
Windows 11, and Ubuntu Linux 21.04 without platform-specific
difficulties.

It is extremely helpful, although not essential, to have a multi-monitor
setup. That way you can run the demonstration in one screen, and the
Teams call on the other.

You should also, as discussed above, be fairly comfortable with R basics
before you enrol on this training. Do please get in touch with
<brendan.clarke2@nhs.scot> to discuss if you are unsure.

### Joining instructions

You’ll need to do a little bit of preparation before the first training
session, which should take about 15 minutes to complete. Please make
sure you have completed this before the start of the first session so
that we can make a prompt start. If you’re new to RStudio Cloud, please
follow the step-by-step instructions below. If you’ve worked with
RStudio Cloud before, you can just sign-in to your account at RStudio
Cloud, create a new project from the GitHub Repository at
<https://github.com/bclarke-nes/basic-stats>.

It is also possible to complete the training using the desktop version
of Rstudio. This training was written using R 4.2.1, and you may
encounter some difficulties related to versions if your installed R is
very different from this.

#### Step-by-step instructions

1.  Go to <https://rstudio.cloud/>
2.  If you have an account, you can log in as normal. Otherwise, please
    create a new account by selecting Get started for free, following
    the steps, and then signing-in
3.  Once you’ve signed-in to RStudio Cloud, add a new project by
    clicking New Project \>\> New Project from a Git repository. When
    prompted, enter the URL <https://github.com/bclarke-nes/basic-stats>
4.  That will give you a new project containing the files needed for
    this training

## Aims and objectives

### Aims

### Objectives

By the end of these session, the user should:
